Welcome to Plar Rose podcast. You are
about to be blessed by the teaching
ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to
be an enlightening time in God's word,
renewing your mind and transforming your
life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray
for you that you are established in all
the truths of God's word taught today.
Let's get right into it.
>> All right, welcome back to the Polaros
podcast. This is your daily dose of
God's word transforming you to fulfill
God's purpose for your life and we are
studying already the newness of life and
we have made quite some progress in this
examination. We are seeing that this
subject matter the newness of life you
could also say the new creation is about
the most important subject matter for us
to examine in God's word. I know like
preachers have this tendency to say
anything they're talking about at the
moment is the most important. I guess I
would have been guilty of it because I'm
very sure I would have said maybe
knowing your purpose is the most
important. And I think you get the point
when I say knowing your purpose on earth
is the most important thing. And then I
go on to say the new creation is the
most important. I'm still within the
same line. Right? Of course I go on to
say redemption is the most important.
That is you need to be saved. Then you
need to know your purpose. Then you now
need to know the new creation so that
you can fulfill God's purpose for you.
um just excuse some of these things is
there's some preachers license to do
those things. Okay. So, but no doubt the
teaching on the new creation or the
newness of life is so so important for
the believer's growth, work and
fulfillment of God's purpose. Now
presently on our study of the new
creation we
um sorry of the newness of life we have
gone the journey of seeing that knowing
God's purpose is not enough is important
that we fulfill it and fulfilling it
requires growth and we have seen that
growth happens on the mind we have seen
the particular aspect of our mind that
growth happens to but having seen all
those details we then have to see how
exactly that growth or with what exactly
I should say at this point with what
exactly Because we know how the growth
happens to us is by knowledge and faith
stand. But okay, what's that knowledge?
Should we now go all into all in all
hand on certain you know um subject
matters like maybe should we now get
know get to knowing theology proper
biblical origin and ontology? Should we
get to studying you know um sutterology
before Christ came upon his coming etc.
you know what are we supposed to be
studying and we said as important as all
those subject matters are as important
as every detail within the um biblical
scriptural Christian doctrine is there
is one particular truth that is at the
center and the heart of the Christian
faith and that is the reality of the new
creation and the text that made this
very clear to us is Paul's words in
Ephesians 4 in talking about the work
that the Lord Jesus gave to the leaders
of the church. He says they are to
perfect the saints so that the saints
will come to the unity of the faith,
knowledge of son of God, perfect man,
measure of stfulness of Christ. So he's
saying that there is this wholeness of
doctrine, unity of the faith which he
also calls the knowledge of son of God.
What as a son of God you ought to know
or what is to be known about the person
of Jesus. There are many ways to skin
that to skin it. You know that
particular statement knowledge of son of
God. It can be what we ought to know as
sons of God. It can be what we ought to
know about Christ which is saying what
we ought to know about the Christ the
redeemer you know I don't want to go
into more explanation on that because
redemption is like the central truth of
the faith if you understand sorry you
have said the new creation is central
the new creation is should be our our
major focus but redemption captures the
fact that there is something God
proposed initially there's something
that has gone wrong we are being brought
back and there's a future consumation of
that so redemption is like at the very
heart the middle of our study but no
doubt what makes for the most focus in
the study of the word for our growth is
the new creation. So when it says
knowledge of son of god if we believe
he's saying the knowledge of the Christ
which is a maybe probably even the most
um probable meaning of that even though
it could also be knowledge of son of god
what you should know as the son of god
but it is the knowledge of the Christ
and he's saying the knowledge of
redemption which is the entirety of the
doctrine not notwithstanding right okay
so he wants us to come to the entirety
of the doctrine and by that we should
come to the perfect man the measure of
statess of Christ but interestingly by
the time he goes
He finish is done talking about what the
leaders of the church should do are
called to do and instructed to do by the
Lord. Immediately he says the effect of
it should be seen on our walk and it
should be such that we are not walking
as those who are yet to believe the
gospel. Then he tells us why we should
walk that way is because of the state of
our mind. And the reason why they are
walking that way is because something is
lacking on on their mind. And then he
says what is on our mind or what should
be on our mind is the truth of the new
creation. So it shows us that within the
awesome doctrine there is a conclusion
that should be our focus and that is who
we are in Christ. The entirety of the
doctrine should lead to that conclusion
and that's who we are in Christ. Amen.
Okay. So it says you have not so long
Christ. So you are not in a state where
your mind is futile and therefore you
are walking in the flesh. You have not
so learned Christ. If indeed you have
heard him have been taught by him as the
truth is in Jesus that you put off
concerning your former conversation the
whole man that grows corrupt according
to this fullest that you are renewed in
the spirit of your mind. That you put on
the new man that is created after God in
righteousness and holiness of truth.
Those three things are pointing to one
thing. We need to have our focus on the
new creation. That's what makes for our
walk. Immediately he says that then he
begins to talk about all areas of our
work. He's saying we should not lie to
one another. every man should speak
truth to his neighbor. We shouldn't be
angry um in a sinful manner. Then um he
says we should work with our hands. You
know, he keep just goes on and on. Talks
about our relationship, talks about our
love work, talks about the supernatural,
talks about our natural assignment, our
conducts and our families, our conduct
at the workplace, our spiritual
assignment as well on and on like that.
Now with all that is said that our
entire life comes from the the teaching
of the doctrine and particularly the
truth of the new creation we are
studying the newness of life and now
we'll go back to Romans chapter 6 so we
can we have clearer understanding of of
this subject matter and remember in the
last session I was saying the reason why
we are looking at the newness of life
rather than say the new creation is
because when we say the newness of life
we are able to look at the external and
the internal conditions that pertain to
the new life that we have in Christ. So
if I say the new creation, we might only
think of the person and so might just
focus on the internal conditions. But
when we say the newness of life, we able
to look at who we are
in in in those two ways and you'll see
why it's important actually very soon.
So in Romans 6, Paul was saying we
shouldn't continue to walk in sin now
that we have received the grace of God
because grace of God doesn't just deal
with the effect of sinful conduct. It
also deals with the very nature of sin
you can say or with the very authority
of sin. So and he mentions that in verse
four therefore we were buried with
Christ through baptism into death. So we
went under death's reign and allowed it
to take its full effect. We went into
death. We went under death reign taking
his full effect in what Christ has done.
And in the legitimate exhaustion of
death's demands is the resurrection of
our Lord Jesus Christ. All right. Uh
there's a teach I encourage you to
listen to. I hope it's out by the time
you are hearing this which is on level
three. So you have to take so you have
to take perfecting course to get there.
All right. So because level three of
perfecting course which is redemption
where we look at the various stories of
redemption and what should be the
way we understand redemption in
actuality. I think title is the reality
of redemption. So it's on level three.
You should listen to it. Now if it's not
out you can wait for it. It's going to
be out eventually. Very important. Now
in Romans 6 and:4 it says we're buried
with Christ through baptism into death
that as Christ was raised from the dead
by the glory of the father which of
course as many people have thought and
it makes sense to say by the spirit of
God you know you can say it's by his
power but it's not wrong to think of it
as by the spirit of God in fact is
right. Even so we should walk in the
newness of life.
We went in the death and burial of Jesus
into one realm. But in the resurrection,
we were brought into another realm. So
that Romans 6:4 is not just talking
about what happened to our person. It's
actually talking about two realms. And
that's because we were under the reign
of sin before as Romans 5 said, you
know, it said death reigned from Adam to
Moses over those who had not seen
according to the likeness of Adam's
transgression. So we are saying death
rain is in this world. I mean and death
reign still affects every human being at
least in terms of mortality but we have
the seal of God exempting us from the um
overall effect of death in second death
because we have received the spirit of
God. And Romans 5 as well in verse 17
says we have come into this new realm
which is the realm of life. It says for
by one mouth of death reign to the one
much more models receivable abundance of
grace and the gift of righteousness will
reign in life. You know we are seeing
walk in the newness of life. We are
seeing rain in life. So under the reign
of death we were victims we were
subjects we were slaves we were being
affected negatively by it. Now in the
reign of life we we are we have the
initiative we are reigning. We are in
power. Okay. So we reign in life. So
this idea of the newness of life is
beyond just saying that there is life in
us which is true is saying that we are
in life. We are in the reign of life.
Very important. Now there are two words
we need to examine here when we speak of
the newness of life. It's one thing for
us to walk in the newness of life and we
know what it takes to walk from our
earlier studies. So we have to grow to
be able to walk and that's by faith.
Right? Colossians 2:6 as we lord just
walk in him. So the same we receive the
Lord by faith. We're supposed to walk in
it. But what is the newness of life? The
word newness is being used for the
purpose of contrast. So there's
something old and now we are in new. So
what is old is stated by Paul in the
next two verses. He said if we were
united in the likeness of his death,
certainly we shall be in the likeness of
his resurrection. knowing that our old
man was crucified with him. So in this
contrast of old and new, there is who we
were, not just the condition we were in,
which is the reign of death. So he says,
"Knowing this that our old man was
crucified with him that the body of sin
might be done away with, that we should
no longer be slaves of sin." So the
nature is changed and we are no longer
under the rain. We are no longer slaves
of sin.
The contrast between old and new is also
referenced in Romans 7:6. But it was
showing the unique nature of the bondage
that pertained to those who were under
the law. You know, all of humanity was
under the bondage of sin. Some with the
law and some without the law. Right?
This something Romans 2:12 to about 16,
I think established or establishes. So
Romans 7:6 says, "But now we have been
delivered from the law, having died to
what we were held by." You see that? So
again is showing that we cannot be under
the demands of that play of that place
and of that ring. We have died to that
so that we should serve in the newness
of the spirit and not in the oldness of
the letter. So we are not a people
without the nature who are now being in
demanded and instructed to walk in a
particular way. We have died to such a
state and now we are a people with the
nature with the spirit. We are his
people that can now walk in the spirit.
There's much to be said there because
when we're talking about the Lord
there's there are fine details to
unpack. There were people whose
reception of the law was not as
the kind of demand Paul will speak about
in Romans 7 because they were faith.
Then their relationship with the law is
like what we saw in Joshua 1:8 where it
was a matter of them walking in what is
true about them as the people of God.
And yet the same law was functioning
differently for some other people. This
this is something else that's something
to look at some other time. So noess
here we are saying is in contrast with a
hold condition or nature or reality.
Okay. So we are at work in the newness
of life. We are brand new and we are in
new conditions. The big word here to
look at is the word life. We understand
there's the oldness of death that
includes the conditions of death the
nature old man and for some people the
oldness of the letter the system of the
lord that they were functioning under I
haven't seen that word newness what we
need to focus on is the word life and
the is that though the word life is zoh
and this is not to make undue offense
but zoh does not mean the life of god
and I'm going to explain that in during
next episode. So, Zoe is a very generic
word for life. In fact, Zoe is where we
get the word zoo or zoologology because
it's referring to a particular kind of
life. And in the next episode, we are
going to unpack it. You know, you can
talk about life as you know life is
living things and of course we have
plants and animals as living things.
When you're saying zoo zoo different
from botney where you're talking about
plants we talking about some kind a
particular kind of life usually animates
right um with the possibility of certain
kinds of animation we are going to look
at that because that word extends beyond
just the internal conditions of an
animate life or external conditions as
well for now we keep looking at iness of
life see you on the next one fulfill
God's purpose thank
We trust you were blessed by today's
episode. Do stay in faith about all
you've heard to walk in it. To learn
more of God's word, visit pleose.org.
You will find answers to your questions
on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the Pllearose
community channel on WhatsApp and follow
us on all our social media handles at
Plurose_Hog.
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.